==Root directory==

The root directory of the distribution contains the following files.

; '''AUTHORS'''
: This file contains the names of the people that have contributed to the development of the library writing code or documentation.

; '''COPYING'''
: A copy of the ''GNU General Public License version 3''.

; '''ChangeLog'''
: A detailed record of the changes made to the library.

; '''DEPENDENCIES'''
: List of the third party packages needed to build and run libgnupdf.

; '''GNUmakefile'''
: A generic top-level makefile from gnulib.

; '''INSTALL'''
: Generic installation instructions from autoconf.

; '''MANIFEST.wiki'''
: This file.

; '''Makefile.am'''
: Top-level automake configuration file.

; '''NEWS'''
: News of each release.

; '''README'''
: Brief description of the project and links to the homepage and ftp site.

; '''README.bzr'''
: Additional information to build a Bazaar checkout of the library.

; '''README.cvs'''
: Additional information to build a CVS checkout of the library. This file is deprecated.

; '''bootstrap'''
: Bootstrap script (wrapper for ''autoreconf'') used to regenerate the libtool and autoconf files. Written by Karl Berry.

; '''cfg.mk'''
: Configuration for some of the facilities implemented by maint.mk

; '''configure.ac'''
: Autoconf file for the library. It is used by autoconf to generate the ''configure'' script.

; '''maint.mk'''
: Makefile containing useful rules for the maintainer. This file comes from gnulib.

; '''libgnupdf.pc.in'''
: pkg-config file for libgnupdf.

; '''other files...'''
: Several generated files.
