=='''prmgt/''' Project Management==

This directory contain several files with management information about the project: tasks, reports, etc.

; '''MANIFEST.wiki'''
: This file.

; '''Makefile.am'''
: Input file for Automake.

; '''apic2wiki.in'''
: Script that generates the wiki version of the API consistency report.

; '''check-api-doc-consistency.pl.in'''
: Perl script generating API consistency data from the source code of the library.

; '''docfuncs.in'''
: Script that lists the documented functions in the GNU PDF Reference Manual.

; '''fly2org'''
: Tcl script implementing flyspray tasks to org-mode.

; '''generate-coverage-report'''
: Shell script that generates a nice html report of code coverage.

; '''get-test-data.sh.in'''
: Shell script that downloads the test data files needed by the test suites of the library.

; '''libgnupdf.tjp'''
: taskjuggler file for libgnupdf.

; '''patch_safety_dispatcher.py'''
: This script runs other QA scripts like the test suite and a syntax check conforming to GCS.

; '''pertdot.xsl''', '''pertfdp.xsl'''
: xsl templates to get Pert diagrams for '''libgnupdf.tjp'''.

; '''pmccabe2html.in'''
: AWK program to generate a html report from the output of the pmccabe program.

; '''pmccabe.css'''
: CSS stylesheets.

; '''srcinfo-extractor.pl.in'''
: Perl script that traverses every directory from topdir and looks for a MANIFEST.wiki file, from which the directory information is then extracted.

; '''testlog2wiki.in'''
: Tests run report generator.

; '''tsdfuncs'''
: List the documented functions in the GNU PDF TSD.

